README.md, before:

# bikingFX

## Abstract

This is a little companion project for [biking2][1], which is live right at [biking.michael-simons.eu][2]. It uses the same API the AngularJS frontend uses, but for a [JavaFX 8 / Java 8][3] application which was created from scratch after seeing several very interesting JavaFX sessions at JavaOne 2014. 

The source code is presented as is, the application maybe has no real use for other people than me, but I think it shows some of things that are possible with and very easy to create with JavaFX.

The project can be build using Maven, tested on Mac OS X and Windows 7. An additional profile (mvn -DcreateInstaller=true package) is provided to create native installers for the deployment platform.

The blog post describing that project and part of the application got a little bit out of hand, it has become kind of epic, at least it's proportions:

["Getting started with JavaFX 8: Developing a REST client application from scratch"][4]

[1]: https://github.com/michael-simons/biking2
[2]: http://biking.michael-simons.eu
[3]: http://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/javafx/get-started-tutorial/jfx-overview.htm
[4]: http://info.michael-simons.eu/2014/10/22/getting-started-with-javafx-8-developing-a-rest-client-application-from-scratch/

Commit message:

Replace Maven build with Bach.
Please see README.md for a gentle introduction.

README.md, after:

# bikingFX

## Abstract

This is a little companion project for [biking2][1], which is live right at [biking.michael-simons.eu][2]. It uses the same API the AngularJS frontend uses, but for a [JavaFX 8 / Java 8][3] application which was created from scratch after seeing several very interesting JavaFX sessions at JavaOne 2014. 

The source code is presented as is, the application maybe has no real use for other people than me, but I think it shows some of things that are possible with and very easy to create with JavaFX.

This application is modularized for a time after JDK 8 and uses the ["bach"][5] build tool. 
It is included with the source code. All you have to do is bring JDK 16.

```
.bach/bin/bach clean build # Compile, test and packages the application
.bach/bin/bach info # prints out information about the build  
.bach/bin/bach --help # prints out a help what you can do with bach
```

_bach_ orchestrates tools that are available in the JDK by default.

_bach_ lives in `.bach` and it uses plain Java modules to describe the build. 
This is the one applied here: [.bach/bach.info/module-info.java](https://github.com/michael-simons/bikingFX/blob/master/.bach/bach.info/module-info.java)

I put the tools I want to use in _bachs_ include list:

* `javac` compiles Java sources
* `jar` packages up all kinds of things (class files, resources etc.)
* `jlink` creates a customized runtime image (this application and a VM)
* `jpackage` creates an host specific executable from the above image as well as an installer.

`junit` sticks out, as it is not a JDK tool but another module that is used via Java's [ToolProvider][6]. "What?" I hear you saying, JUnit is a library?
Yes, but it also comes with a console runner implementing `ToolProvider` and thus being usable by _bach_.

The blog post describing that project and part of the application got a little bit out of hand, it has become kind of epic, at least it's proportions:

["Getting started with JavaFX 8: Developing a REST client application from scratch"][4]

[1]: https://github.com/michael-simons/biking2
[2]: http://biking.michael-simons.eu
[3]: http://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/javafx/get-started-tutorial/jfx-overview.htm
[4]: http://info.michael-simons.eu/2014/10/22/getting-started-with-javafx-8-developing-a-rest-client-application-from-scratch/
[5]: https://github.com/sormuras/bach
[6]: https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/16/docs/api/java.base/java/util/spi/ToolProvider.html
